# __Telegram-bot - Mak_Gripe_bot__
***
## I present to your attention my author's project of the Telegram-bot [Mak-Gripe-bot](https://t.me/Mak_Gripe_bot), which has a wide range of versatile functions that help automate the conduct of any business among Telegram messenger users. The bot not only simplifies business processes, but completely saves the time of an entrepreneur or a sales manager by depriving them of the need to perform routine tasks, starting from accepting an application from the buyer and ending with accepting payment for goods.
***
Example of the above project was a potential car tire and disc store, where the entrepreneur showed a desire to bring his business online. The technical specification of such a project sets the following tasks for the developer-executor:
- Automatic publications on the main [Telegram-channel](https://t.me/makgripe) of the product card with its detailed description and image, which are automatically deleted when the product is sold out.
- Connected SQLite database, which contains all the characteristics of the product, this is image, the article, as well as the quantity of the product in stock.
- Automation of accepting applications from buyers for the purchase of goods from both the discussion group and the main [Telegram-channel](https://t.me/makgripe), where buyers are filtered according to the principle of whether a person is subscribed to the channel or not. The client, being not subscribed to the main channel, receives a welcome message with an offer to subscribe to the channel and order the goods. The bot also has the function of automatically blocking users of the group on the basis of spam and mate, after 3 warnings, the user is blocked.
- The client and the administrator see two different control panels when accessing the bot. In the case of the administrator, there are two buttons in front of him: __"Создать новый пост"__ and __"Посмотреть все заявки"__, and in the case of the buyer: __"Хочу купить товар!"__ and __"Хочу подобрать товар!"__.
- The __"Создать новый пост"__ button is responsible for publishing the product card in the main [Telegram-channel](https://t.me/makgripe), where the information is entered by the administrator either himself or from pre-compiled characteristics, after which the product card is automatically added to the channel and saved to the SQLite database.
- The __"Посмотреть все заявки"__ button is necessary to view all applications at once that customers have left for him by contacting the bot.
- The __"Хочу купить товар!"__ button is responsible for the fact that the client can leave an application to the administrator for what kind of product he wants to buy, where the bot offers him a choice of goods by article, automatically created when creating a product card post on the channel. After that, the client leaves his data for feedback with a personal comment on the order, but in order to send the application itself, he needs to make a payment, otherwise he will not leave the application, and it will not automatically go to the administrator (pre-order).
- The __"Хочу подобрать товар!"__ button helps in the case when a client needs to pick up a product according to certain characteristics (radius, width, diameter, etc.), after which the bot outputs all the options from SQLite databases with Inline buttons, and when pressed, full product data is displayed to him.
- The bot also has automatic verification of all data entered by the client when making an application, where if they make an error when entering a Telegram-nickname, the application will not be processed. There is also a counter for the number of goods left after leaving the application, as a reservation, so that the administrator can always track how many goods are left.
***
### Mak_Gripe_bot was basically created using the _aiogram_ library, as well as auxiliary ones such as _sqlite3_, _asyncio_, _datetime_, _random_, etc.
#### [Link to the Telegram-bot](https://t.me/Mak_Gripe_bot)
#### [Link to the Telegram-channel](https://t.me/makgripe)
